## PRIOR  (MARKET) CONSULTATION

### PRIOR  (MARKET) CONSULTATION ON THE PURCHASE OF SERVICES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT (MODERNISATION) OF THE CENTRAL PUBLIC PROCUREMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM


1. | Contracting   authority | Public   Procurement Office (hereinafter - PPO)
-- | -- | --
2. | Contact   persons | By means of CVP   IS (when the supplier is registered in CVP IS) or by e-mail rinkos.konsultacijos@vpt.lt   (when the supplier is not registered in CVP IS)
3. | Language | In Lithuanian / English
4. | Project | The Public   Procurement Office (hereinafter - PPO) implements the project “Modernisation   of the Central Public Procurement Information System” financed by the   European Social Fund and the State Budget of the Republic of Lithuania, No   10.1.2-ESFA-V-916-01-0015.   The   project is implemented in accordance with the Priority 10 of the European   Union Funds Investment Operational Program of 2014–2020 “Advanced public   management that meets the needs of the society”  No 10.1.2-ESFA-V-916 measure “Implementation   of national anti-corruption measures”.    The aim of the   project is to reduce the factors of the occurrence and spread of corruption   in public procurement.  During the   modernisation of the Central Public Procurement Information System (hereinafter   - CVP IS), SAULĖ IS is created ( changing the name of the information   system), ensuring the transformation of all processes in public procurement   into smart digital solutions. During development of SAULĖ IS, the aim is to   increase the efficiency of e-procurement, automate the procurement process   from planning to contracting, create tools for greater disclosure of   information, create interfaces with other institutions' information systems,   create functionalities to track potential conflicts of interest and implement   other electronic tools helping to prevent acts of a corrupt nature. The   target group of the project are    contracting authorities, suppliers, controlling authorities and the   society..  The modernized CVP IS, as a   result of the implemented project, will contribute to the implementation of   the National Anti-Corruption Program of the Republic of Lithuania for   2015–2025 in the Interinstitutional Action Plan for 2015–2019, approved   by  Resolution No 648 of 17th June 2015   of the Government of the Republic of Lithuania “On the Approval of the   Interinstitutional Action Plan for 2015–2019 for the Implementation of the   National Anti-Corruption Program of the Republic of Lithuania for 2015–2025”,   the intended purpose “To ensure fair competition, transparent and rational   procurement of goods, works or services during implementation of public   procurement” because e-procurement and publicity of information is one of the   most effective tools in the fight against corruption.     After creating  SUN IS, not only the project goal will be   achieved and the needs of the target groups will be met, but also public   procurement processes will be accelerated, administrative burdens will be   reduced, public procurement costs will be reduced, promoting competition   between suppliers, it will be possible for contracting authorities to use a   wider range of procurement methods, the human resources of contracting   authorities in the field of public procurement will be better used.
5. | Purchase   object | SAULĖ IS   development (modernisation) services.    The purchase  shall include the   acquisition of all necessary licences.
6. | Purpose   of market consultation | The PPO market   consultation aims to:   1)     Prepare for purchase properly   2)     Prepare procurement documents to ensure fair   competition;   3)     Make the market participants aware of the planned   purchase;   4)     Enable market participants and other interested   parties to submit comments, suggestions, questions, recommendations   (hereinafter - insights).
7. | The   object of market consultation | The project of procurement   documents. The participants of the consultation are requested to familiarize   with these documents, paying particular attention to:   1.      Technical specification of the procurement object;   2.      Qualification requirements for suppliers;   3.      Criteria and methodology for assessing the economic   benefits of proposals;   4.      Terms and conditions of the procurement contract   (terms of validity of the contract, terms of performance of obligations,   settlement procedure; measures to ensure performance of the contract).       When providing   insights, we ask  to indicate the exact   location of the procurement documents, provide the justification, arguments   for the information provided.
8. | Market consultation deadline | 14th September 2020 inclusive.
9. | Market   consultation method | The market   consultation is performed by CVP IS electronic means.
10. | Market   consultation procedure | Stages of market   consultation:   Stage I:   Insights received by CVP IS or by e-mail rinkos.konsultacijos@vpt.lt  will be reviewed and evaluated During   provision of insights, it is necessary to indicate clearly, which information   is confidential.    Stage II:   Depending on the  insights received,   PPO may offer a meeting with the supplier(s).    If the meeting is organized, PPO suppliers will be notified by CVP IS   (when the supplier is registered in CVP IS) or by e-mail specified by the   supplier (when the supplier is not registered in CVP IS), indicating the time   and place of the meeting (s).    Meetings with   each interested supplier will take place separately.    The information   provided by the suppliers during the meetings will be treated as   confidential.     Meeting place -   VPN administrative premises, address Kareivių St. 1, Vilnius.    When providing   insights, please  specify:   the company   represented, its contacts;   names of   contact  persons, contact details.
11. | Provision   of answers to the received insights. | Systematized   insights (depersonalized) of all participants and answers to them will be   published on CVP IS with the market consultation documents no later than   before the start of the purchase.
12. | Other   references to the Technical Specification | The technical   specification for this planned purchase has been made public:   ·        https://github.com/Viesuju-pirkimu-tarnyba/saule/issues/1

* VPN does not undertake to take all insights into account when announcing a procurement.

### DURING THE PRELIMINARY (MARKET) CONSULTATION, WE SEEK TO DISCUSS THE FOLLOWING ISSUES:


Seq.   No | Question | Participant's opinion
-- | -- | --
1) | Are   the terms and conditions specified in the procurement documents acceptable   and clear, would you make an offer for this purchase object? If not, please   state the reason why. |  
2) | Are   the qualification requirements set proportionate to the object of the   procurement? If not, please  provide   your insights. |  
3) | What costs, in your opinion, are important in applying the life   cycle cost approach? |  
4) | What   additional specialists, in your opinion, would be needed in order to   implement the procurement contract in a timely and high-quality manner? |  
5) | Are   the established cost-effectiveness criteria and methodology acceptable to you   and  lead to participation in the   procurement? If not, please state the reason why. |  
6) | What   coefficients of the final price components would seem proportionate to you in   the cost-benefit assessment? Why? |  
7) | What   pricing and procedures of payment for services would you recommend?   We   note that:   1)       a) the eligible costs  under the Project must be incurred by the   end of the Project: 01-10-2023;   2)       b) the object of the purchase includes the services   for development of SAULĖ IS  and the   licences necessary for its operation;   3)       (c) term of the contract: 7 years and 6 months, of   which:   4)       Planned development / implementation period - 30   months;   5)       Warranty maintenance period - 36 months;   6)       The need for licences during the term of the   contract. |  
8) | What   safeguards should / could we include in the service contract to achieve the   best possible result? |  
9) | What   other insights could you provide on the feasibility and timeliness of the   Project? |  
The   reference contains a short description of the technical specification in   Lithuanian and English.  If you have   any insights on the issues below, we look forward to hearing from you.
10) | Is   the object of the purchase specified in the technical specification clear? If   not, please indicate what is unclear and what we should clarify. |  
11) | Are   the service stages / iterations in the technical specification clear? If   not, please indicate what is unclear and what we should clarify. |  
12) | Do   you have any comments on the requirements in the technical specification? If   yes, please indicate points and comments. |  

