## SUPPLIER QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

**Requirements on suppliers qualification** _(authorized organization requires all the suppliers to provide together with the tender actual documents, approving the compliance to qualification requirements)_ 

Serial    No. | Qualification requirements | Supporting documents
-- | -- | --
Financial and economic capacity
1. | The average annual income in   the last 3 fiscal years or since the day of the registration of the supplier   (if the supplier has been operating for less than 3 fiscal years) must be at   least 1,000,000 EUR. | A report of the company’s 3   recent fiscal years or since the day of the registration of the economic   entity (if the economic entity has been operating for less than 3 fiscal   years) or an extract from the economic entity’s financial statements with the   auditor’s conclusions (in cases of audit), if the law of the economic   entity’s country of registration requires to publish the annual financial   statements. If the financial accountability documents have not been submitted   to the state enterprise Centre of Registers, the supplier must provide   documents, containing the required information (certificates, extracts,   etc.), approved by subjects, responsible for the supplier’s financial   accountability.
Technical and professional capacity
2. | In the last 3 (three) years or   since the day of the registration of the supplier (if the supplier has been   operating for less than 3 (three) years) before the day of making the offer,   the Supplier must have implemented at least 1 (one) agreements which involve   developing or modernising an information system of at least EUR 1,000,000 in   value.               Agreement for qualification approval is regarded as suitable if,   at the time of making the offer, the modernised and/or developed information   system (or a result of an appropriate service) has been transfer for   production operation and meets the following conditions: | The list of the services, rendered by the supplier   in the last 3 (three) years or since the day of the registration of the   supplier (if the supplier has been operating for less than 3 years) or in the   process of rendering in accordance with the form, provided in the Tender Terms and Conditions, Appendix 3,   indicating the following:   -          title of the agreement;    -          short description of the agreement (indicating the   services rendered and their value);   -          compliance with clauses 2.1-2.2;   -          client details (company title, address, phone, contact   person);   -          date and term of the agreement; completion date.    also a letter from the client   indicated regarding proper   implementation or completion of the agreement.       Digital copies of the   documents, signed by the Supplier.   In order to make sure or specify   the submitted information, the authorised organisation may submit a separate   written request to provide the copies or extracts of the agreements   implemented, as well as documents, describing the object of the project (e.g.   terms of reference) or contact the representative of the client, indicated by   the Supplier, without any notice in advance.
2.1 | Which involves developing or modifying an information system is   accessible and used by external users (residents and/or business subjects). | Documents, indicated in the   row 2 of this table are provided.
2.2 | During   which at least 1 (one) integrative interface with another information system   has been developed or modified. | Documents, indicated in the   row 2 of this table are provided.
3. | The Supplier   must offer qualified experts that are capable of rendering the Service.   Experts that will be responsible for rendering the Service, must meet the   requirements, indicated below (each expert position must be filled with an   expert, who meets all the requirements for that position).        The procuring entity does not   restrict the possibilities of the experts to participate at several positions   or to offer several experts to a single position as long as they meet the   requirements for that position.        The requirements for a   certain expert must be met by a single person, offered by the supplier (the   supplier cannot offer several persons, who meet the requirements for a single   position as a group, but could not meet these requirements individually).       Seeking to clarify the   information on the agreement completed or in the process of rendering, also   the expert’s role in the said agreement, the procuring entity maintains the   right to contact the representative of the client, indicated by the Supplier,   without any notice in advance. | Documents included:   1. The   supplier’s list of experts, responsible for the implementation of the   agreement, must indicate their names and surnames, workplaces and other   information, based on the form, supplied in the Tender Terms and Conditions,   Appendix 4.       2. Curriculum vitae (CV) of   the experts offered.       3. A free format statement of   the supplier to confirm that the experts, offered by the supplier are   proficient in Lithuanian (spoken and written) in at least level C1 according   to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages, or the supplier   must ensure translation and interpretation services at his own cost.       4. Course, training or   seminar certificates are not suitable. The experts must have passed an   examination for the relevant qualification and the qualification must be   attested with a certificate or an equivalent document.       The supplier must prove the   equivalence of certificates to official documents.
3.1. | Project Manager:   ·         Must have a qualification of a project   manager, recognized on the international level;   ·       Must have led at least 1 (one) agreement of information system   developing, installation/modification and (or) support in the last 3 (three)   years. | All documents, indicated in the row 3 of this   table, also the Prince2, PMP, CompTIA Project+ or an equivalent certificate   to prove the Project Manager’s qualification must be submitted.
3.2. | Information Technology   Architect:   ·       must have participated in the implementation of at least 1 (one)   information technology (IT) service agreement as an IT architect, which   involved:   o     developing or modernising an   information system or a register, based on service oriented architecture   (SOA) principles and the implementation (modernisation) of architectural   solutions, and the expert has been engaged in activities, related to   architectural solutions;   o     developing at least 1 (one)   operating integrative interface with other information systems.   ·         has a qualification of an IT   architect, recognized on the international level. | The supplier must   submit all documents, indicated in the row 3 of this table, the certificate   to prove the qualifications of an IT architect, also the suggested   programming technology that will be used for the development of the system.
3.3. | Business Process   Analysis Expert:    ·         must have participated in at   least 1 (one) agreement of rendering IT services, which involved designing   and transforming business processes into information systems, as a business   process analysis expert in the last 3 (three) years    ·         has a qualification of a   business process analyst, recognized on the international level. | The supplier must   submit all documents, indicated in the row 3 of this table, the certificate   to prove the qualification of the operation process analyst – OCEB (Object   Management Group Certified Expert in Business Process Modelling) or FCBA   (ISEB Foundation Certificate in Business Analysis) or an equivalent   certificate.
3.4. | System Integration Expert:   ·         must have participated in at least 1   (one) agreement of IT service development (modernisation), which involved   integrating information systems (by developing integrative interfaces) as a   system integration exert in the last 3 (three) years. | All documents,   indicated in the row 3 of this table are provided.
3.5. | Application Programmer:   ·         must have participated in at least 1   (one) agreement of IT service development (modernisation), which involved   development (modernisation) of information systems, during which he/she   conducted application programming works for the developed or modernised information   system or register in the last 3 (three) years.   ·       has a   qualification of an application programmer, recognized on the international   level. | We suggest that experts should not be demanded to   have certificates, but having such would ensure additional points.       The supplier must   submit all documents, indicated in the row 3 of this table, and also the   certificate to prove the qualifications of the programmer of the technology,   suggested by the supplier to be used for the development of the system, or an   equivalent document.
3.6. | Testing Expert:   ·       must   have a qualification of a testing expert, recognized on the international   level;   ·       Must   have participated in at least 1 (one) IT service implementation, development   or modernisation project/agreement, where he/she has conducted the testing of   the solution, in the last 3 (three) years. | We suggest that experts should not be demanded to   have certificates, but having such would ensure additional points.       The supplier must   submit all documents, indicated in the row 3 of this table, and also the   certificate to prove the Testing Expert’s Advanced Level qualifications –   ISTQB (International Software Testing Qualifications Board) or ISEB   (Information Systems Examination Board), or another equivalent document to   prove that the expert is qualified;
3.7 | Ergonomics (User Interface Quality) Expert:   ·       Must   have participated in at least 1 (one) successfully completed   project/agreement as an ergonomics expert, conducting a user interface   quality assessment of an information system and the analysis of the user   needs in the last 3 (three) years.     ·         must have a qualification of   an information system user interface expert, recognized on the international   level; | We suggest that experts should not be demanded to   have certificates, but having such would ensure additional points.       The supplier must   submit all documents, indicated in the row 3 of this table, and also the   certificate to prove the Certificate to prove the qualifications of a user   interface expert (Certified Usability Analyst (CUA) or BCPE (Board of   Certification in Professional Ergonomics) or an equivalent certificate.
3.8 | IT   Safety Expert:   ·       must   have participated in at least 1 (one) agreement of IT services as a safety   expert, during which he/she ensured the safety of the data in the developed,   moderniser or maintained information system or register in the last 3 (three)   years;   ·         must have a qualification of   an IT safety expert, recognized on the international level; | We suggest that experts should not be demanded to   have certificates, but having such would ensure additional points.       The supplier must   submit all documents, indicated in the row 3 of this table, and also the   certificate to prove the    A certificate to prove the   qualification of an IT expert – (Certified Information Security Manager),   CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional) or an equivalent   certificate.

