## 2	CONTEXT OF THE PROJECT 

<p>8. PPO plans to modify SAULĖ IS in order to: <br />8.1. Transform all procurement processes into smart digital solutions in the electronic space; <br />8.2. Integrate SAULĖ IS with state registers and related state information systems (see Section 8.6 Requirements for SAULĖ IS integration interfaces);<br />8.3. Substantially increase the work efficiency of SAULĖ IS users and speed up the related business processes;<br />8.4. Automate the assessment of procurement risks and improve the analysis and dissemination of procurement data;<br />8.5. Increase the transparency of the procurement process through the application of open data principles and other modern means of informing the public and tenderers;<br />8.6. Optimise the costs of SAULĖ IS development and maintenance and the transparency of SAULĖ IS implementation, ensuring competition between CPP IS development and maintenance service providers;<br />8.7. Update the SAULĖ IS implementation architecture and technological tools, considering modern trends of IT market;<br />8.8. Transfer SAULĖ IS to the consolidated State IT infrastructure.<br />8.9. Create new and improve existing services provided by PPO SAULĖ IS.<br />8.10. SAULĖ IS modification priority directions:<br />8.11. Integral, smooth and user-friendly computerised process;<br />8.12. Maximum structured procurement data in order to reuse, analyse and speed up procurement processes for both suppliers and procurement implementers;<br />8.13. Easily modifiable, flexible system that allows easy making of necessary changes;<br />8.14. Use of advanced technologies - business intelligence, artificial intelligence, robotics, etc.;<br />8.15. Optimal support/maintenance costs - evaluate the possibilities of using standard open source software for SAULĖ IS development.</p>
