## 3	INFORMATION ON THE PROJECT

9. Key purpose of the Project is to reduce the factors of the emergence and spread of corruption in public procurement.
10. Target group of the Project - procurement implementers, suppliers, supervisors, Regulatory authorities and the public. The project aims to increase the efficiency of e-procurement, automate the procurement process from planning to contract execution, develop tools for better disclosure of information, create interfaces with the systems of other institutions which data is relevant in the procurement procedure, and information systems of Regulatory authorities, create functionalities to track potential conflicts of interests and the implement other electronic measures to prevent acts of corruption. 
11. The modified CPP IS, as a result of the implemented project, will contribute to the achievement of the goal “Ensuring fair competition, transparent and rational procurement of goods, works or services in public procurement” set in the Interinstitutional Action Plan for 2015-2019 for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Program of the Republic of Lithuania for 2015–2025, by Resolution No 648 of the Government of the Republic of Lithuania of 17 June 2015 “On the Approval of the Interinstitutional Action Plan for 2015–2019 for the Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Program of the Republic of Lithuania for 2015–2025”, as e-procurement and publicity of information is one of the most effective anti-corruption measures. 
12. CPP IS modification will not only achieve the project objective and meet the needs of the target groups, but also speed up procurement processes, reduce administrative burdens, reduce procurement costs, promote competition between suppliers, enable procurement implementers to use more diverse procurement methods, make better use of human resources of procurement implementers in the field of procurement.
