## 8.11	REQUIREMENTS FOR SAULĖ IS CREATION SERVICE STAGES AND DEADLINES 

<p>2566. The table below presents the Service Stages, the works (activities) performed during the stages, the description of the responsibilities of the implementation participants and the documentation requirements.<br />2567. The project must be implemented in an iterative-incremental way of developing an information system, applying good &ldquo;Agile&rdquo; software development practices.<br />2568. The project must be implemented by creating six increments (iterations):<br />2568.1. The first increment must include the initialization, detail analysis, design, development, installation in the test environment, and acceptance testing stages (requirements for the steps are provided in the table below).<br />2568.2. The second, third, fourth, and fifth increments must include the stages of detail analysis, design, development, installation in the test environment, and acceptance testing (requirements for the stages are provided in the table below). Upon the separate instruction of the Contracting Authority, these increments may include test operation and installation in a production environment, where it is agreed during the execution of the Project that part of the functionality must be installed in production.<br />2568.3. The sixth increment must cover all stages (except initiation) (the requirements for the stages are given in the table below).<br />2569. During the implementation of increments, the Installer must make all changes (modification) of the functionalities created during the previous increments, if such a need becomes clear during the detailed analysis and design stage.<br />2570. The Installer must specify in the service provision regulation what specific SAULĖ IS modification activities (what functions will be created/modified, what interfaces have been implemented, etc.) will be performed in each increment.<br />2571. After signing the service contract, the schedule of project activities (number of increments, deadlines, etc.) may be adjusted upon mutual agreement (subject to justification and approval of the Contracting Authority).<br />2572. The Installer will have to make presentations (demonstrations, presentations, etc.) of the results of the stages and the proposed solutions, if requested by the Contracting Authority.<br />2573. All services must be provided on the terms and conditions provided for in the Service Agreement.</p>

Table 8.1. Service stages, stage results and deadlines

<table width="100%">
<thead>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p><strong>N</strong><strong>o</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p><strong>Service delivery stage</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p><strong>Requirements for stage works</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Result</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p><strong>Deadline</strong></p>
</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>1.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Initiation</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installed:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares the Service Delivery Regulation and agrees with the Contracting Authority.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides the necessary information;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments and recommendations.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Service Delivery Regulation</strong>. The Service Delivery Regulation specifies the Project objectives, priorities, scope and results of the stages, interested parties, work progress schedule, standards and qualitative requirements used, risks and their management methods, communication principles, responsibilities, Project problem identification and management procedures, criteria for acceptance of intermediate and final results, change management procedure, problem solving procedure, risk management procedure and all other information relevant to the implementation of the Project and change management.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>The results of the stage must be submitted within 15 business days from the effective date of the Service Contract.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>2.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Detail analysis</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installed:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Carries out an assessment of the current and intended situation, prepares detail analysis documentation and coordinates it with the Contracting Authority.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides the necessary information;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments and recommendations;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Approves the stage results of the Installer.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Detail analysis documents</strong>. The detail analysis documents analyse and detail the functional and non-functional requirements of the Technical Specification and other needs expressed by the Contracting Authority, prepare use cases, which are presented in use case diagrams according to the UML (Unified Pivoting Language) notation and detailed by describing each use case steps (main course, alternative course, exceptional course) and other restrictions. More complex use cases or groups of uses must be detailed by presenting operational and SAULĖ IS operation processes using process pivoting diagrams (UML activity diagram, Business Process Model and Notation) or equivalent diagrams). Structured descriptions of the latter diagrams are provided. SAULĖ IS users and their rights are described. All functional and non-functional requirements of this Specification must be linked to the content of the detail analysis document (sections, use cases, diagrams, etc.). Linking must be done in a form that makes it clear how each requirement of this Specification is designed and implemented.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>-</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>3.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Design</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installer:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; prepares SAULĖ IS design documents;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares documents describing integration interfaces.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides the necessary information;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments and recommendations;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Approves the stage results of the Installer.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Design documents</strong>. A description of the SAULĖ IS architecture in terms of physical components and software components, technologies used (their names, versions), information view (database structures (with explanations), database interface diagrams, etc.), functional view (SAULĖ IS functional units), their functions, interfaces, user interface prototypes, etc.), integration view (interfaces between internal and external systems, created for the system under development), operational view (system processes, algorithms, periodic system work, etc.), deployment view (distribution of software components in hardware), etc. must be provided.</p>
<p><strong>Documents describing integration interfaces</strong>. They must contain details of the purpose of each integration and data exchange interface, the implementation solution, the outgoing / incoming requests, the data provided / received, the connection and other parameters, the integration interface usage examples and scenarios (sequence diagram) and other relevant information describing the integration interface operation, its use.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>-</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>4.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Creation</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installer:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs necessary programming and configuration works (in its creation environment), implements functional and non-functional requirements;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs unit testing, internal testing, testing of interfaces with other systems and registers (integration) and prepares an internal testing report.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Organises SAULĖ IS demonstrations.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares SAULĖ IS installation manuals.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides the necessary information;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Review and assess the results of internal testing;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments and recommendations SAULĖ IS during demonstrations.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides the necessary information for SAULĖ IS installation in test environment.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Internal testing report</strong>, which describes the results of the performed internal testing (scope, test methods, used test scenarios, test scenario results, test environment, conclusions).</p>
<p><strong>Software ready for installation</strong>.</p>
<p><strong>Prepared SAULĖ IS installation manuals.</strong></p>
<p><strong>Organised SAULĖ IS demonstrations.</strong></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>The internal testing report must be submitted at least in 2 weeks before the end of the development phase.</p>
<p>SAULĖ IS demonstrations must be organised continuously, according to a prior agreed schedule.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>5.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Installation in test environment</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installer:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Develops and provides software suitable for installation in the test environment of the Contracting Authority;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs the installation of the developed software in the test environment.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides acceptance testing scenarios and test methods.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides the necessary information;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Controls the test environment;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments on acceptance test methods and scenarios.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>The created software is installed in the test environment of the Contracting Authority</strong>.</p>
<p><strong>Acceptance test scenarios and methods</strong>.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>This installation phase must be completed before the start of the acceptance testing phase.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>6.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Acceptance testing</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installer:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares user manuals (documents): user manual and SAULĖ IS administration manual, installation manual;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs acceptance testing;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Makes necessary eliminations of errors / discrepancies detected during testing;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares an acceptance testing report.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs acceptance testing;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Accepts software for installation in production environment.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs user-friendliness assessment of the user interface.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Successful acceptance testing (criteria for successful acceptance testing are met)</strong>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Prepared user manuals </strong>(user manuals, administration manuals).</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Prepared acceptance testing report. &nbsp;</strong></p>
<p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p>
<p><strong>SAULĖ IS ready for installation on production environment.</strong></p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>Acceptance testing must be performed before the start of the test operation.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>7.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Installation in production environment</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>The Installer performs the following works:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Develops and submits software suitable for installation in the operating environment of the Contracting Authority.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Installs the software in the operating environment.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments and recommendations;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides information on the operating environment; controls the operating environment.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Prepared operating environment </strong>in the infrastructure of the Contracting Authority.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Developed software installed</strong> in the infrastructure of the Contracting Authority.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>This installation can only take place after successful acceptance testing.</p>
<p>This installation phase must be completed no ex-post than in two weeks after the end of the acceptance testing phase and completed before the start of the test operation.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>8.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Training</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>The Installer performs the following works:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares a training plan;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares training materials and other necessary tools;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Installs SAULĖ IS in the training environment;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Conducts trainings.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments on the training plan;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Participates in the training.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>SAULĖ IS installed in the training environment.</strong></p>
<p><strong>Prepared training plan</strong>. The document must describe the organisation of training courses, provide detailed training plans / schedules, training groups, training locations, specified training tools.</p>
<p><strong>Prepared training materials</strong>.</p>
<p><strong>Training for the agreed number of users has been completed</strong>.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>The training must be completed before the start of the test operation.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>9.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Data migration type</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>The Installer performs the following works:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares a data loading description;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs data loading.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides data or access to data that needs to be migrated.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Provided and agreed description of data loading. &nbsp;</strong></p>
<p><strong>Performed data loading</strong>.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>Data loading can be done only after the successful installation in production (operational environment phase).</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>10.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Test operation</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installer:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides consultations on trial operation issues;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Responds and eliminates defects detected during operation;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides expert consultations to the employees and IT specialists of the Contracting Authority;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Makes necessary adjustments based on unauthorised access resistance and speed test results.</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares after-sales maintenance procedure documents.</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Works with installed SAULĖ IS;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Records errors detected during test operation;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs control over the elimination of problems identified during test operation;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Performs unauthorised access resistance and speed testing.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Errors detected during test operation have been eliminated</strong>. Test operation completed successfully.</p>
<p><strong>Consultations provided</strong>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>A document of the after-sales maintenance procedure has been prepared</strong>. The document must describe the method of providing after-sales maintenance, detailed conditions for providing after-sales maintenance, Liability of the Installer, liability of the Contracting Authority, contact information, additional procedures (escalation, error registration, consulting), etc.).</p>
<p><strong>Necessary adjustments have been made </strong>considering the results of unauthorised access resistance and speed testing.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>The duration of the test operation shall be agreed with the Contracting Authority.</p>
<p>The after-sales maintenance procedure document must be submitted at least in 1 month before the end of the test operation.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>11.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>After-sales service</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>The Installer provides a minimum of 36 months after-sales service.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>After-sales service obligations are provided</strong>.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>36 months from the date of signing the Final Handover Certificate.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="5" width="100%">
<p><strong>During the whole Project</strong></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="4%">
<p>12.</p>
</td>
<td width="11%">
<p>Preparation of reports</p>
</td>
<td width="27%">
<p>Installer:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares a progress report on the modification of SAULĖ IS at least quarterly;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prepares the final report on the development and implementation of SAULĖ IS (after the test operation).</p>
<p>Contracting Authority:</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provides comments and recommendations on reports.</p>
</td>
<td width="36%">
<p><strong>Reports prepared. </strong>The reports shall set out (without limitation):</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; results achieved, activities carried out and their progress in related to SAULĖ IS development schedule;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; risks, critical factors and planned actions, forecasts and other circumstances important for the implementation of the Project;</p>
<p>&middot;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; SAULĖ IS development schedule changes.</p>
</td>
<td width="19%">
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

