## 8.4	REQUIREMENTS FOR SAULĖ IS SPEED AND PERFORMANCE

<p>2465. The implementation of &ldquo;Saulė&rdquo; portal must ensure that when 3 000 users and their actions work simultaneously with &ldquo;Saulė&rdquo; portal - inserting, changing and deleting documentary records, performing other actions (the execution time of which does not depend on interfaces with external systems), the response time (the time from the receipt of the HTTP request from the server to the sending of the HTTP response) shall not exceed 3 seconds with a total 350 HTTP requests per minute. Exceptional cases may need to be agreed with the PPO (for example, report generation, data import or export, uploading large files, actions involving requests and receiving responses from third-party systems, etc.).<br />2466. The implementation of &ldquo;Saulė&rdquo; portal must ensure that when 300 users and their actions work simultaneously with &ldquo;Saulė&rdquo; portal - inserting, changing and deleting documentary records, performing other actions (the execution time of which does not depend on interfaces with external systems), the response time (the time from the receipt of the HTTP request from the server to the sending of the HTTP response) shall not exceed 3 seconds with a total 200 HTTP requests per minute. Exceptional cases may need to be agreed with the PPO (for example, report generation, data import or export, uploading large files, actions involving requests and receiving responses from third-party systems, etc.).<br />2467. Audits of requests that exceed the specified performance requirements must be implemented. The audit trail must contain sufficient data to determine which SAULĖ IS function does not meet the performance requirements.<br />2468. The implementation of integration interfaces must ensure that the integration scenarios defined during the design will occur within a rational period of time and will not in any way negatively affect the ease of use and performance of SAULĖ IS applications.<br />2469. During the acceptance testing phase (or at other agreed times), the Installer shall create all necessary conditions for the PPO representatives to perform the performance and speed testing. If necessary, the Installer will have to perform the configuration or programming work that will be necessary to test the performance of SAULĖ IS in various scenarios of its use. The installer will not be required to provide any software or hardware for performance and speed testing.<br />2470. The installer shall perform the necessary SAULĖ IS programming and / or configuration works, taking into account the results of performance and speed tests performed by PPO representatives, if the test results do not meet the performance and speed requirements specified in the above points.</p>
