## 8.5	REQUIREMENTS FOR SAULĖ IS SOFTWARE LICENSES


<ul>
<li>The installer, having assessed the requirements of the specification, must provide the necessary software and licenses (or any other permits (certificates, subscriptions, etc.) to use the software) required for the implementation of the proposed solution. If such software or licenses are not explicitly required in this technical specification, but are necessary for the implementation of SAULĖ IS development activities (for example, application servers, reporting software, programming frameworks, etc.), the Installer must provide such software and licenses.</li>
<li>The standard licensed software (Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software) provided by the Installer (application servers, monitoring software, reporting software, programming frameworks, content management systems, etc.) required for the operation of SAULĖ IS must be provided with all required licenses (if licensed) for the entire term of the Contract (so that PPO does not need to acquire additional licenses or otherwise incur operating costs for the software.</li>
<li>The licensed software (for the entire term of the Contract) must have the support of the manufacturer: download and installation of updates, introduction of new components.</li>
<li>If the offered software is licensed depending on the number of users (people or systems) using the system, server parameters, etc., then the Installer must provide licenses that would ensure the rational and efficient operation and use of SAULĖ IS in a 3-year perspective.</li>
<li>All costs of the required software must be included in the tender.</li>
<li>All required licenses must be obtained on behalf of PPO. All licenses required for the operation of SAULĖ IS must be transferred to the PPO. The period of validity of licenses in accordance with the requirements of the specification must be calculated from the start of the pilot operation. If licenses are required during the development phase (prior to trial operation), the Installer must submit the relevant licenses without including their expiration date in the required license expiration period, with all related costs assumed accordingly.</li>
</ul>
