## 8.7	REQUIREMENTS FOR SAULĖ IS USER INTERFACE AND ERGONOMICS 


2481. The Installer must design the SAULĖ IS using best practices UX (User experience) and UI (User interface) in order to make the user interface as intuitive and understandable as possible, avoiding any unnecessary action. SAULĖ IS user interface must be modified and improved in accordance with the methodological document on usability of public administration electronic services “Guidelines for Solving Eligibility Problems”.
2482. A design sketch of the SAULĖ IS portal with examples of information display for various types of device screens must be submitted to the PPO for assessment.
2483. Once a version of the design sketch has been agreed with the PPO, the Installer must create a prototype (for example, using https://www.axure.com/) and collect feedback from the PPO and other interested parties (at least 20 people) before creating the design (surveys, interviews, etc.). The opinions of users must be considered when designing the user interface. Meetings, surveys must be documented and submitted to the PPO.
2484. During the test operation, the Installer will have to make all changes to the user interface specified by the PPO, without deviating from the agreed design, if required.
2485. The user interface of the SAULĖ IS components must be accessible through a web browser (exceptions may apply to standard licensed software, if provided (for example, reporting and statistics software, database administration software, etc.)).
2486. SAULĖ IS (“Saulė” portal, internal portal) must be constructed according to the principles of “responsive web design”. The detailed analysis must determine which SAULĖ IS functions must be accessible using mobile devices (lower resolution screens) and which - using a computer (higher resolution screens).
2487. SAULĖ IS components accessible via a web browser must function in the same way and be displayed in these web browsers (browser versions must be coordinated at the design phase):
2487.1. Microsoft Edge / Microsoft Internet Explorer;
2487.2. Mozilla Firefox;
2487.3. Safari;
2487.4. Google Chrome.
2488. “Saulė” portal must be implemented in Lithuanian and English (including classifiers and related components). The internal portal must be implemented in Lithuanian. The language must be used in accordance with the general rules of the Lithuanian language. Software and messages for system administrators must be in Lithuanian or English.
2489. It must be possible to install other portal languages by CMS or other means.
2490. User interface error messages must be worded in such a way that it is clear to the user what has happened and what further action he needs to take in order to continue working.
2491. SAULĖ IS user interface must be intuitive, understandable and easy to use for users with the required level of computer literacy (ECDL or higher) and meet modern ergonomic requirements. 
2492. To ensure modern user interface ergonomic requirements, it is recommended to follow standard LST EN ISO 9241–110:2006 “Ergonomics of human-system interaction. Part 110. Dialogue Principles (ISO 9241–110:2006)” or equivalent. 
2493. The user interface shall be adapted to the requirements set forth in the methodological recommendations for the development, testing and evaluation of websites of state and municipal institutions and establishments adapted for the disabled, approved by Order No T-72 of the Information Society Development Committee under the Director of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of 23 May 2013 “On amendment of Order No T-40 he Information Society Development Committee under the Director of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of 31 March 2004  “On the Approval of the Methodological Recommendations for the Development, Testing and Assessment of Websites of State and Municipal Institutions and Bodies Adapted for the Disabled””. Pursuant to Clause 7 of the Order “It is recommended to adapt the website to at least AA level”, the Installer must ensure AA level accessibility in accordance with the “Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1” (https://www.w3.org/TR/ WCAG21 /) with the possibility to expand the functionality of SAULĖ IS in order to ensure the “AAA” level in future.
2494. In the implementation of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), SAULĖ IS content must be presented in such a form that persons with hearing and visual impairments can freely use the functions of SAULĖ IS.
2495. The user interface of SAULĖ IS components accessible through a web browser must comply with the W3C XHTML or equivalent specification and must use at least 1.0 W3C XHTML or equivalent. At least Level 2.1 CSS2 or equivalent technology must be used for implementation (Cascading Style Sheets Language 2 Revision 1, www.w3.org/Style/CSS/).
2496. User interface control must be based on mouse and keyboard devices.
2497. Functionality that ensures simple use must be implemented:
2497.1. online data retrieval tools;
2497.2. traceability of the TAB key as it travels through the data entry fields;
2497.3. providing hints and explanations when the mouse pointer is hovered over a graphic object;
2497.4. automatic saving of entered data when changing active windows, fields or when a user session is terminated.
2497.5. in the data entry forms, the data fields must be filled in automatically if the relevant data is stored in SAULĖ IS;
2497.6. user interface elements that cannot be used according to the logic implemented by SAULĖ IS must be marked inactive and / or hidden.
2498. Data lists must be:
2498.1. paged, with the ability to specify how many rows to display on the list page. You must return to the previous page using the browser’s “Back” button. When entering a selected list object from a specific data list page and returning, the same data list page from which you went to the selected list object must be displayed;
2498.2. filtered according to the criteria relevant to the list. The installer, after a year of detailed analysis, will need to identify the filtering criteria for each list and implement them;
2498.3. sorted by the items to be sorted in the list;
2498.4. exported to files (* .pdf, * .docx,. * xlxs, or equivalent). A detailed analysis must determine which lists need the latter function;
2498.5. open in print mode. The detailed analysis must determine which lists and forms require the latter status;
2498.6. data consisting of Lithuanian characters must be sorted according to the Lithuanian alphabet;
2499. For the records (documents, objects, etc.) created by SAULĖ IS, the functions of editing, deleting and cancelling those records must be implemented.
2500. SAULĖ IS must indicate longer processes (functions) so that it is clear to the user that SAULĖ IS is working and there is no need to call the same functions several times. If the process is such that it is necessary to wait until SAULĖ IS processes the required data to continue, then the user must be restricted from initiating further actions, unless the user initiates a longer process cancellation in a message indicating that the process may take some time.
2501. Requirements for informing of users
2501.1. SAULĖ IS messages to the user must be worded in such a way that the user has a clear reason for the message. Information on the reason for the notification must be provided by specifying specific SAULĖ IS data objects (for example, field names);
2501.2. the error message provided to the user must indicate what actions the user must take in order to eliminate the reasons for the message and continue working with SAULĖ IS;
2501.3. the user must be provided with success messages indicating that the actions performed by the user are successful (for example, information that the record has been saved / deleted / modified, data has been successfully uploaded, etc.);
2501.4. error messages, success messages and informational messages must be highlighted in different colours or different symbols in order to be visually distinguishable;
2501.5. if the results of the actions performed by the user will have a significant impact, before performing the action SAULĖ IS must submit a message and ask the user to confirm that the action is really intended to be performed.
2502. The user must be provided with aids to help them learn to use the SAULĖ IS faster (for example, help buttons, user manual, video material).
2503. The data entry fields in the user interface shall have data validation rules and check the correctness of the input data logic. Fields and field validation rules must be agreed with the PPO during the detailed analysis and design phases. Preliminary:
2503.1. the required data is checked;
2503.2. data format (date, number, text or other set rules) is checked;
2503.3. upload file extensions and sizes are checked;
2503.4. logical check is performed between form elements - selection (input) of one form element must be able to enable / disable other form elements and perform other actions that will have to be agreed with PPO.
