* [9.1 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURE](#user-content-91-project-implementation-procedure)
* [9.2 SELECTED CREATION METHOD](#user-content-92-selected-creation-method)
* [9.3 SOURCES OF FINANCING AND FINANCING PROCEDURE](#user-content-93-sources-of-financing-and-financing-procedure)
* [9.4 WORK SCHEDULES](#user-content-94-work-schedules)
* [9.5 ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH PERFORMANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS (TESTING)](#user-content-95-assessment-of-compliance-with-performance-and-implementation-requirements-testing)
* [9.6 INSTALLATION AND ASSESSMENT OF SUITABILITY FOR USE](#user-content-96-installation-and-assessment-of-suitability-for-use)

## CREATION PROJECT MANAGEMENT

### 9.1 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURE

Organisational structure of project management consists of two levels:  

•	Project Administration Group (hereinafter referred to as PAG),

•	Project Implementation Group (hereinafter referred to as PIG). 

All members participating in the Project Groups are called members of the Project Implementation Group. 
The PPO has qualified and experienced employees to deal with organisational, economic and financial, technological issues related to the implementation of the Project. PAG consisting of 4 employees will be formed to manage the Project.

The Project will be implemented, and the quality of service provided by service providers will be ensured by 11 PPO employees responsible for different areas, who will be members of the PIG. Members of this Group may be invited to attend meetings of the PAG or the Project Supervision Group and participate in other related activities.
The roles of the Project organisational structure units during the Project implementation are summarized in Table 10.

_Table 10. Functions of the Project management organisational structure_ 

Project organisational structure unit | Functions
-- | --
Project   Administration group | ·        Project Administration Group will consist of:   o    Project Manager;   o    Project Coordinator;   o    Project Financial Manager;   o    Project Procurement Coordinator.        ·        Functions and responsibilities of the Project Manager:    o    Ensuring the achievement of the   Project goal on time, according to the identified resources and scope;   o    Project team demand formation;   o    Leading the Project team, assignment   of tasks, organisation of meetings, ensuring their documentation;   o    Preparation and control of the   Project Implementation Plan, resources, scope, risks;   o    Ensuring control over compliance   with the Project Progress Schedule;   o    Management of internal and   external communication related to the Project implementation, ensuring the   dissemination of lessons learned during the Project implementation;   o    Participation in planning and   implementation of the Project publicity activities;   o    Initiation of necessary Project   changes;   o    Preparation of project progress   reports, completion report, other necessary documents;   o    Provision of information necessary   for the preparation and submission of documents related to the Project   administration (procurement plans, payment requests, documents substantiating   the project costs and activities, etc.) to the members of the Project   Administration Group;   o    Participation in the preparation   and implementation of the Office`s information technology development   strategy;   o    Participation in organisation of   planning and implementation of electronic information security measures;   o    Participation in the preparation   of the technical procurement documentation of the Project.       ·         Functions and responsibilities of the Project   Coordinator:   o    Administration of the Project   financing agreement and coordination of the progress schedule;   o    Preparation, adjustment and   submission of payment requests to the Implementing Agency;   o    Control of adequacy of documents   supporting project activities, their preparation and systematization;   o    Coordination of project publicity   activities;   o    Administration of information   contained in DMS;   o    Correspondence with the   Implementing Agency on the project implementation issues.       ·         Functions and responsibilities of the Project Financial   Manager:   o    Project budget control and cost   eligibility;   o    Calculation for wages of persons   involved in the project implementation, preparation of documents confirming   the calculation;   o    Preparation and adjustment of   payment requests and payment request submission schedules;   o    Systematization of documents   supporting project costs;   o    Providing information on the   Project budget to the project implementation supervisory group;   o    Correspondence with the   Implementing Agency on project finance issues.       ·         Functions and responsibilities of the Project   Procurement Coordinator:   o    Administration of the project   financing agreement and coordination of the progress schedule;   o    Participation in the preparation   of annual PPO procurement plans;   o    Preparation, revision,   modification and coordination of the project procurement plan with the   Implementing Agency;   o    Coordination of procurement   documents with the Implementing Agency in cases of pre-procurement   verification;   o    Coordinating, systematizing and   providing the preparation of procurement documents to the persons preparing   the payment requests and the Implementing Agency;   o    Execution of public procurement   (if necessary);   o    Providing information on the   progress and results of public procurement to the members of the project   implementation supervisory group;   o    Correspondence with the   Implementing Agency on procurement issues.
Project   Implementation group | ·        The Project Implementation Group will consist of 10 specialists and a   Project Architect and Manager. PIG functions and responsibilities:   o    Participation in the preparation   of the Investment project / feasibility study and coordination of the   documentation with the IVPK and other interested institutions;   o    CPP IS 2.0 development   implementation planning;   o    Project procurement planning and   coordination of information with the Project procurement coordinator;   o    Project procurement initiation -   preparation, coordination and submission of procurement applications and   technical specifications for approval;   o    Monitoring the performance of   contracts (cooperation with service providers, evaluation of works performed   by intermediate service providers, submission of proposals and comments);   o    Provision of information on   operational issues, participation in analysis meetings;   o    Participation in all activities   related to CPP IS modification, system testing, training, etc.;   o    Providing information on   intermediate results to the Project Manager;       ·        Functions and responsibilities of the Project Architect and Manager:    o    Participation in meetings with IS   users, suppliers and other interested parties to determine the need and scope   of IS;   o    Development of requirements for IS   considering the needs and limitations of users;   o    Carrying out market research to   determine which solutions best meet the requirements for software and   hardware functionality;   o    Close cooperation with IS design   and implementation specialists to solve any problems arising during design or   implementation in accordance with the basic design concepts, requirements and   user needs and constraints;   o    Development of acceptance test   programs and test protocols together with IS suppliers, designers, test   engineers and users;   o    Ensuring that all architectural IS   solutions would be developed and implemented in accordance with international   recommendations and standards;   o    Identification of development   needs in related components that may affect IS deployment and functionality;   o    Ensuring that the architectural   solutions of the IS would be as robust as possible and would allow easy   expansion of the system functionalities and technical support in the future;   o    Preparation and provision of   necessary information related to IS development / modification to responsible   persons;   o    Participation in organisation of   planning and implementation of IS security measures;   o    Participation in the preparation   of technical documentation of the Project public procurement, if possible;   o    Implementation planning for the   development of a new CPP IS;   o    Project procurement planning and   coordination of information with the Project Procurement Coordinator;   o    Initiation of project procurement   (preparation, coordination and submission of procurement applications and   technical specifications for approval) and execution (if necessary);   o    Monitoring the performance of   contracts (cooperation with service providers, evaluation of work performed   by intermediate service providers, submission of proposals and comments);   o    Participation in all activities   related to CPP IS modification, system testing, training, etc.;   o    Providing information on   intermediate results to the Project Manager.

 
The decision on the Project implementation procedure and appointment of responsible persons, approved by Order No 1S-66 (1.2 E) of the Director of the Public Procurement Office of 2 June 2020 “On the Amendment of Order No 1S-41 of the Director of the Public Procurement Office of 10 March 2017 “On the Approval of Formation of the Team for Implementation of the Project” Modification of the Central Public Procurement Information System ”and Functions of its Members”.

## 9.2 SELECTED CREATION METHOD

The following volume factors were considered in selecting the appropriate method for the creation and implementation of CPP IS:
•	acquisition and adaptation of specialised software;
•	creation of individual components (programming);
•	testing;
•	implementation, data migration, integration;
•	trial operation;
•	documentation (preparation of user manuals, etc.);
•	user training.

Project activities will be carried out in stages and will consist of the preparation and execution of procurement and the implementation of contracts with suppliers. The new information system will be developed using the Agile principle. Using the Agile project management method, product development is organised in the shortest possible cycles. Receiving the first running version of the product in few weeks after the start of the project gives a clearer understanding of the size of the project, potential risks, and feedback.

## 9.3 SOURCES OF FINANCING AND FINANCING PROCEDURE

It is planned to receive the necessary financing for the implementation of the Project from the EU structural support and the state budget of the Republic of Lithuania: in order to implement the Project, the Project application will be submitted in accordance with Priority 10 of the European Union Funds Investment Operational Program for 2014–2020 “Public Needs and Smart Public Administration”, instrument No 10.1.2-ESFA-V-916 “Implementation of National Anti-Corruption Measures”. The planned part of financing from this source is 100%, own contribution of the PPO to the project implementation is not expected.

## 9.4 WORK SCHEDULES
CPP IS modification duration – 24 months.
The Project will be implemented in an iterative-incremental way of information system development, applying good “Agile” software development practices.
The Project will be implemented by creating six increments (iterations):
•	The first increment must include the initialization, detailed analysis, design, development, installation in the test environment, and acceptance testing stages (requirements for the stages are provided in the table below).
•	The second, third, fourth, and fifth increments must include the stages of detailed analysis, design, development, installation in the test environment, and acceptance testing (requirements for the stages are provided in the table below). Upon the separate instruction of the Contracting Authority, these increments may include pilot operation and installation in a production environment, where it is agreed during the execution of the Project that a part of the functionality must be installed in production.
•	The sixth increment must cover all stages (except initiation) (the requirements for the stages are provided in the table below).
During the implementation of increments, the Installer must make all changes (modification) of the functionalities created during the previous increments, if such a need becomes clear during the detailed analysis and design stage.
Duration of the stages, stages, works, responsible parties and results are described in Table 11.

Table 11. CPP IS installation work schedule

No | Service    provision stage | Requirements    for the stage works | Result | Term
-- | -- | -- | -- | --
1. | Initiation | Installer:   ·          Prepares   the Regulations for the Provision of Services and agrees with the Contracting   Authority.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   the required information;   Provides comments and   recommendations. | Regulations for the Provision of   Services. | The results of the stage must be   submitted within 15 business days from the effective date of the Service   Contract.
2. | Detailed analysis | Installer:   ·          Carries   out an assessment of the current and intended situation, prepares detailed   analysis documentation and coordinates it with the Contracting Authority.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   the necessary information;   ·          Provides   comments and recommendations;   ·          Approves   the stage results of the Installer. | Detailed analysis documentation. | -
3. | Design | Installer:   ·          Prepares   CPP IS design documents;   ·          Prepares   documents describing integration interfaces.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   the required information;   ·          Provides   comments and recommendations;   ·          Approves   the stage results of the Installer. | Design documents.    Documents describing integration   interfaces. | -
4. | Development | Installer:   ·          Performs   necessary programming and configuration works (in its own development   environment), implements functional and non-functional requirements;   ·          Performs   unit testing, internal testing, testing of interfaces (integration) with   other systems and registers and prepares an internal testing report.   ·          CPP   IS demonstrations.   ·          Prepares   CPP IS installation manuals.       Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   the required information;   ·          Review   and evaluate the results of internal testing;   ·          Provides   comments and recommendations during CPP IS demonstrations.   ·          Provides   the necessary information for CPP IS installation in a test environment. | Internal testing report.   Software ready for installation.   CPP IS installation manuals   prepared.   Demonstrations of CPP. | The internal testing report must be submitted at least in 2 weeks   before the end of the development phase.   CPP IS demonstrations must be   conducted on a regular basis, according to a separately agreed schedule.
5. | Installation in test environment | Installer:   ·          Develops   and provides software suitable for installation in the test environment of   the Contracting Authority;   ·          Performs   the installation of the developed software in the test environment.   ·          Provides   acceptance testing scenarios and testing methodology.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   the required information;   ·          Controls   test environment;   ·          Provides   comments on acceptance testing methodologies and scenarios. | The developed software installed in the testing   environment of the Contracting Authority.   Acceptance testing scenarios and   methodology. | This installation stage must be   completed before the start of the acceptance testing stage.
6. | Acceptance testing | Installer:   ·          Prepares   user manuals (documents): user manual and CPP IS administration manual,   installation manual;   ·          Performs   acceptance testing;   ·          Carries   out the necessary corrections of errors/discrepancies revealed during   testing;   ·          Prepares   an acceptance testing report.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Performs   acceptance testing;   ·          Accepts   software for installation in production environment.   ·          Performs   user-friendliness evaluation of the user interface. | Successful acceptance testing   (criteria for successful acceptance testing are met).       User manuals prepared (user   manuals, administrative instructions).       Prepared acceptance testing report.       CPP IS ready for installation in   production environment. | Acceptance testing must be   performed before the start of the trial operation stage
7. | Installation in production   environment | The Installer performs the   following works:   ·          Develops   and submits software suitable for installation in the operating environment   of the Contracting Authority.   ·          Installs   software in the operating environment.       Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   comments and recommendations;   ·          Provides   information on the operating environment; controls the operating environment. | Prepared operating environment in   the infrastructure of the Contracting Authority.         Developed software installed in the   operating environment of the Contracting Authority. | This installation can only take   place after successful acceptance testing.   This installation stage must be   completed no later than within two weeks after the end of the acceptance   testing stage and completed before the start of the trial operation.
8. | Training | The Installer performs the   following works:   ·          Prepares   a training plan;   ·          Prepares   training materials and other necessary tools;   ·          Implements   CPP IS in the training environment;   ·          Conducts   trainings.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   comments on the training plan;   ·          Participates   in training. | CPP IS implemented in a training environment.   Prepared training plan.   Prepared training material.   Completed training for the agreed   number of users. | The training must be completed   before the start of the trial operation.
9. | Data migration stage | The Installer performs the   following works:   ·          Prepares   a data migration description;   ·          Performs   data migration.       Contracting Authority:   ·          Provides   data or access to data that needs to be migrated. | Submitted and agreed data migration   description.   Performed data migration. | Data migration can take place only   after a successful implementation in the production (operational environment   stage).
10. | Trial operation | Installer:   ·          Provides   consultations on trial operation issues;   ·          Responds   and eliminates defects detected during operation;   ·          Provides   expert advice to the employees of the Contracting Authority and IT   specialists;   ·          Makes   necessary adjustments based on burglary resistance and speed test results.   ·          Prepares   warranty maintenance procedure documents.   Contracting Authority:   ·          Works   with the installed CPP IS;   ·          Records   errors detected during trial operation;   ·          Performs   control over the elimination of problems identified during trial operation;   ·          Performs   burglary resistance and speed testing. | Eliminated errors detected during   trial operation. Trial operation successfully completed. Consultations   provided.       Prepared document of the warranty   maintenance procedure.    Necessary adjustments have been   made considering the results of burglary resistance and speed testing. | The duration of the trial operation   shall be agreed with the Contracting Authority.   The warranty maintenance procedure   document must be submitted at least in 1 month before the end of the trial   operation.
11. | Warranty maintenance | The Installer provides a minimum of   36 months warranty service. | Warranty service obligations are   provided. | 36 months from the date of signing   the Final Handover Certificate.

## 9.5 ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH PERFORMANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS (TESTING)

The following tests must be performed during CPP IS testing:
•	Internal testing. Internal testing of individual components must be performed by the Installer without the participation of PPO representatives, but must provide evidence of such testing - an internal testing report and a list of identified non-compliances;
•	Safety testing;
•	Load (speed) testing;
•	Acceptance testing. This testing should only be performed after positive safety and load testing results have been obtained with the participation of the Executor, the PPO and other interested parties. During this testing, the implementation of the testing objectives (determination of the level of implementation) must be checked. Acceptance testing activities must be conducted in accordance with a defined acceptance testing plan and methodology.

The testing performed must ensure that the upgraded CPP IS is suitable for trial operation.
During acceptance testing, the identified errors, problems and deficiencies must be recorded. The Installer is responsible for registration. 
The error log – there must be specialized issue tracking and tracking software based on network technologies, i.e. accessible via a web browser.
The Installer will need to prepare all the test data required for testing.
The Installer will need to ensure that there is sufficient test data in the CPP IS during acceptance testing to fully test the functionality of the upgraded CPP IS.
Acceptance testing will be completed when the test acceptance criteria specified in the testing plan and methodology is met.

## 9.6 INSTALLATION AND ASSESSMENT OF SUITABILITY FOR USE

The Installer shall create test and operational environments in the State Cloud Service Provider environment specified by PPO, selected data centre of service provider, or PPO technical infrastructure and install all necessary software for CPP IS testing and CPP IS operation, respectively.
The implementation of CPP IS is performed in as follows:
•	The Installer must create test and operational environments where the PPO provides the technical and organisational conditions for this.
•	The Installer`s upgraded CPP IS operating environment must ensure high availability and security.
•	The Installer must install measures to ensure the automatic installation of new versions of the system in the operating environment, ensuring its operation during installation.
•	Solutions must be implemented so that software code, applications, databases can be updated in the required environments without additional user actions.
•	The Installer must provide consultations to PPO employees on all issues related to the implementation of the CPP IS software.

CPP IS acceptance is performed as follows:
•	The final acceptance of CPP IS will take place at the end of the trial operation, i.e. acceptance will only be possible once the acceptance criteria for trial operation have been met.
•	CPP IS will be accepted by signing the Handover Certificate.
•	Without prejudice to the intellectual property rights of the copyright holder or third parties, the Installer shall contractually transfer the PPO copyright to custom software and design documents, including, but not limited to, the right to use the software for an indefinite period and at no additional charge; the right to make copies of the created software; the right to modify and further develop the developed software; the right to transfer the software to another technological platform; the right to use and modify the source code of the software created for it (machine language source texts);
•	If custom software uses other software of the copyright holder or third parties that is integrated into the custom software or is otherwise associated with the custom and the copyright in the developed software or developed design documents, transfer to the PPO software or prepare design documents shall not restrict the right of the Installer who transferred these rights to further develop, improve, distribute and perform other necessary actions with the developed software or prepared design documents without the separate consent of the PPO;
•	Together with the computer program, as defined in the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of the Republic of Lithuania, the source code of the program is transmitted to the PPO. The personal non-property rights of the author of a computer program may not be used in such a way as to restrict the rights of the holder of the copyright in the computer program, including the right to adapt, modify and distribute these works free of charge. This item provides for the property rights of authors in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Law on Management of State Information Resource,  transferred and granted within the territory of the Republic of Lithuania and in the countries of the European Union for an indefinite period of time;
•	The Installer must transfer the software developed during the project to PPO, as well as its source code by the date of signing the Service Handover Certificate.
•	The Installer is not entitled to disclose any information related to the provision of services to third parties without the written permission of the PPO or if required by law.

The handover of the final implementation project results and intermediate project results will be formalized in the Handover Certificates.
