## 10.3 ANNEX. COMPUTERISED OPERATIONAL PROCESSES (FUTURE PROCESSES) 


No | Field of    activity | Process    title | Parties    involved in the process | Process    execution environment | Process    result
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
1 | Public procurement   planning |   |   |  
1.1. |   | PP planning   process | Procurement   Executors | Specialized   third-party IS is used, such as EcoCost, NEVDA VP IS, and other IS for PP   planning, or office software (* .xls, * .xlsx, etc. files) or CPP IS tools. | 1)     Prepared and approved Procurement Plan;   2)        Procurement summary has been formed and published   based on the data of the approved procurement plan.
2 | Execution of   public procurement procedures |   |   |  
2.1. |   | Procurement initiation | Procurement Executors | Improved  CPP   IS process |  
2.2. |   | Publication of preliminary information | Procurement Executors | Improved  CPP   IS process | Preliminary   procurement notice published.
2.3. |   | Preparatory procedures (prior publication of   technical specifications and opportunity to comment; market consultation (as far   as the system can help in this area) | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Improved  CPP   IS process | Published   preliminary technical specification, provided market consultation (item 1 of   paragraph 1 of Article 27 of LPP, item 1 of paragraph 1 of Article 39 of   KSLP).
2.4. |   | Procurement execution: |   |   |  
2.4.1. |   | Preparation and publication of procurement documents   (according to the chosen procurement method, a separate process for each   method) | Procurement Executors, PPO, Suppliers | For preparation: office software (* .doc, * .docx   and other format files).   For publication: CPP IS. | Prepared and published procurement documents.
2.4.2. |   | Examination of claims, if any (in the field of   communication) | Procurement Executors, PPO (if the claiming country   adds the PPO to the list of claimants), Suppliers. | Examination of inquiries: CPP IS   For preparation: CPP IS   For sending: CPP IS. | Examined claim and sent decision to the Suppliers   participating in the Procurement.
2.4.3. |   | Examination of inquiries, if any (in the field of   communication) | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Examination of inquiries: CPP IS   For preparation: CPP IS   For sending: CPP IS. | Sent responses to received inquiries
2.4.4. |   | Adjustment of procurement documents if the need is   identified | Procurement Executors | For adjustment: CVP IS   For publication: CVP IS. | Adjusted procurement documents.
2.5. |   | Authorization of another contracting authority to   carry out procurement procedures | Procurement Executors, authorised contracting   authorities | Authorizations are granted outside the system or   integration with the VIISP and the Register of Powers of Attorney. | Authorization to carry out procurement procedures.
2.6. |   | Procurement is carried out jointly by different   Procuring Entities / PO | Procurement Executors | CPP IS | Decision to make a joint procurement.
2.7. |   | Submission of tenders | Suppliers, Procurement Executors | Improved  CPP   IS process | Submitted/received tender.
2.8. |   | Introduction to the tenders | Procurement Executors | CPP IS | Fact of introduction to tenders and the minutes of   the commission confirming it.
2.9. |   | Assessment of tenders: |   |   |  
2.9.1. |   | When tenders are assessed according to the lowest   price criterion | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Outside   the system: CPP IS   Results   published in CPP IS. | Fact of assessment of tenders and the minutes of the   commission confirming it.
2.9.2. |   | When tenders are assessed based on price or   cost-performance ratio | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Outside   the system: CPP IS   Results published in CPP IS. | Fact of assessment of tenders and the minutes of the   commission confirming it.
2.10. |   | Assessment of suppliers` compliance with the   established requirements for exclusion grounds | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Outside   the system: CPP IS   Results published in CPP IS. | Performed assessment of the Suppliers` compliance   with the established requirements for the grounds for exclusion.
2.11. |   | Tender revision (when it is possible to revise,   complete or interpret the tender) | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Documents are prepared outside the system using   office software (* .doc, * .docx, etc. format files) or CPP IS tools.   CPP IS is used for document exchange. | Specified tenders meeting the requirements.
2.12. |   | Assessment of suppliers` compliance with   qualification requirements (if applicable) | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Procurement   commission meetings, assessment reports are prepared in CPP IS.       Results published in CPP IS. | Assessment reports of suppliers` qualification   compliance with qualification requirements, minutes of commission meetings.
2.13. |   | Qualification adjustment (if applicable) | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Documents are prepared outside the system using with   the help of office software (* .doc, * .docx, etc. format files).   CPP IS is used for data exchange. | Specified qualification meeting the requirements.
2.14. |   | Procurement execution using a dynamic procurement   system | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | - | Procurement completed, contract (s) concluded
2.15. |   | Procurement by electronic auction | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Improved CPP IS process | Procurement completed, contract concluded
2.16. |   | Execution of procurement by requiring the submission   of a tender in the form of an electronic catalogue or using an electronic   catalogue | Procurement Executors, Suppliers | Improved CPP IS process | Procurement completed, contract (s) concluded
2.17. |   | Procurement through CPO | Procurement Executors, CPO, Suppliers | CPO | Procurement completed, contract concluded
3 | Administration   of entities registered in CPP IS |   |   |  
3.1. |   | Organisation registration process | System Administrator, Organisation Representative,   User. | Improved  CPP   IS process | Organisation account created in CPP IS
3.2. |   | User authentication process | System Administrator, Organisation Representative,   User | Improved  CPP   IS process | Organisation account created in CPP IS
3.3. |   | Organisation user management | System Administrator, Organisation Representative,   User. | Improved  CPP   IS process | Organisation account created in CPP IS
3.4. |   | The process of management of delegation of System or   Organisation Administrator functions | System Administrator, Organisation Representative,   User. | Improved  CPP   IS process | Organisation account created in CPP IS
3.6. |   | Deactivation of the organisation | System Administrator, Organisation Representative,   User. | Improved  CPP   IS process | Organisation account created in CPP IS
4 | Information   publication |   |   |  
4.1. |   | Information publication | System Administrator | Improved  CPP   IS process | Required information and data  published
4.3. |   | Compilation and management of surveys | Assistance Subsystem Specialist | Improved  CPP   IS process | Published survey
5 | Supporting   documents for public procurement procedures and their use |   |   |  
5.1. |   | Creation and editing of electronic forms and document   templates | PPO Specialist | CPP IS | Published document
5.2. |   | Use of electronic forms and document templates | PPO Specialist | CPP IS | Prepared electronic notice or document
6 | Management of   public procurement documents |   |   |  
6.1. |   | Formation, signing, storage and archiving of   organisational documents |   | CPP IS | Prepared and signed document
6.2. |   | Organisation and holding of PC meetings |   | CPP IS | Prepared and signed document
7 | Management of   public procurement contracts |   |   |  
7.1. |   | Conclusion, signature and entry into force of the   contract | Procurement Specialist, Supplier | CPP IS | Prepared and signed document
7.2. |   | Contract amendment | Procurement Specialist, Supplier | CPP IS | Prepared and signed document
7.3. |   | Contract termination | Procurement Specialist, Supplier | CPP IS | Prepared and signed document
7.4. |   | Submission of additional orders under contracts | Procurement Specialist, Supplier | CPP IS | Prepared and signed document
7.5. |   | Inclusion of suppliers in   lists of unreliable suppliers | Procurement Executors | CPP IS | The supplier is included in the list of unreliable   suppliers.
8 | Communications   (correspondence) |   |   |  
8.1. |   | Sending of notice to   registered users of the System (when the sender is PPO or PE) | Sending parties: Procurement Executor, PPO,   Receiving parties: Procurement Executors (when the   sender is PPO), Suppliers (when the sender is PPO or PE) | Improved  CPP   IS process | Message sent (mass, standard or system) to selected   registered SAULĖ IS user (s) or user group (s).
8.2. |   | Sending of a message / reply   to a received message to the Procurement Executor or the PPO (when the sender   is the Supplier) | Sending   parties: Supplier   Receiving   parties: Procurement Executors, PPO | Improved  CPP   IS process    PPO messages shall be sent by e-mail. | Received reply to a message.
8.3. |   | Sending of application to   the PPO (when the sender is a PE) | Sending parties: Procurement Executors;    Receiving parties: PPO. | Outside the system: PPO messages shall be sent by   e-mail. | Application sent to the PPO.
9 | Control and prevention   of offences |   |   |  
9.1. |   | Review of the list of contracts to be assessed,   assessed, evaluated, contracts and organisations to be inspected and   inspected | PPO Specialists | DMS | Process designed for review of the list of contracts   to be assessed, assessed, evaluated, contracts and organisations to be   inspected and inspected
9.2. |   | Initiation of the inspection of the Procurement,   Contract or Executor and assignment of tasks | PPO Specialists | DMS | Procurement, contract evaluation or Procurement   Executor inspection initiated, and human resources assigned
9.3. |   | Preparation and submission to the Procurement   Executor of the Procurement, Contract Assessment Report or Organisation   Inspection Report, which may include an obligation and / or recommendation | PPO Specialists, Contracting Authorities,   Procurement Executors, implementing bodies of organisation | DMS, organisational tools (excel and other) | Prepared, approved assessment report or inspection   report and submitted to the organisation and published
9.4. |   | Submission of a request to the Procurement Executor   to provide explanations regarding the evaluation of the procurement, contract   or organisation being evaluated and receipt of the Procurement Executor`s   response; | PPO Specialists, Procurement Executors, implementing   bodies of organisation | DMS, organisational tools (excel and other) | An Inquiry submitted to the Procurement Executor and   its response received
9.5. |   | Approval of the conclusion of the procurement,   contract assessment decision / organisation inspection | PPO Specialists | DMS, organisational tools | Approved conclusion of the procurement, contract   assessment decision / organisation inspection
9.6. |   | Submission of the decision or conclusion and its   review | PPO Specialists, Contracting Authorities,   Implementing Agencies | DMS | The adopted decision or conclusion submitted to the   Contracting Authority, the Implementing Organisation
9.7. |   | Check the notice and approve it or   return it for review. | PPO Specialists, Procurement Executors | CPP IS, DMS | Checked notices
10 | Audit |   |   |  
10.1. |   | View and export audit data | System Administrator | Improved  CPP   IS process | Audit   records reviewed and exported as needed.
11 | Statistical   reports |   |   |  
11.1. |   | Creation of new report template | PPO Specialists | Improved  CPP   IS process | Created new report template
11.2. |   | Generation and review of a statistical report | PPO Specialists | Improved  CPP   IS process | Generated   and reviewed statistical report
12 | Assistance to   users and target groups |   |   |  
12.1. |   | Preparation, change and publication of CPP IS manuals | Service Providers, System Administrator | CPP IS | Prepared, adjusted and published manual
12.4. |   | Provision of letters and inquiries to the PPO | Procurement Executors, Suppliers, public | https://klausk.PPO.lt/hc/lt/requests/new,   Organisational tools (official letter) for preparation: office software (*   .doc, * .docx and other format files), DMS | Letter or inquiry provided to the PPO
13 | Operational   processes of Implementing and Supervisory Agencies |   |   |  
13.1. |   | Creation of users Implementing and Supervisory   Agencies | Administrators of Implementing and Supervisory   Agencies, PPO | Organisational tools and CPP IS | Created CPP IS users
13.2. |   | Preliminary verification of the procurement package   by the Implementing Agencies | Specialists of Implementing Agencies | Improved  CPP   IS process | Reviewed contractor`s documents related to a specific   procurement
13.3. |   | Later verification of procurement by Implementing   Agencies | Specialists of Implementing Agencies | Improved  CPP   IS process | Reviewed contractor`s documents related to a   specific procurement
13.4 |   | Procurement inspection by supervisory agencies | Specialists of Supervisory Agencies, PPO | Improved  CPP   IS process | Transferred documents or data
14 | Management of   preliminary contracts |   |   |  
14.1. |   | Procurement under a preliminary contract from a   single supplier | Procurement Specialists, Supplier (s) | CPP IS | Signing of the   main contract
14.2. |   | Procurement under a preliminary contract from   several suppliers | Procurement Specialists, Supplier (s) | CPP IS | Signing of the   main contracts
14.3. |   | Procurement under the renewed competition procedure | Procurement Specialists, Supplier (s) | CPP IS | Signing of the   main contract or contracts
15 | Risk   management |   |   |  
15.1. |   | Listing of risky procurements, contracts, buyers,   suppliers and sectors | PPO Specialists, System Administrator | PPRM IS |  
15.2. |   | Risk management in procurement, contracts, buyers,   suppliers and sectors | PPO Specialists, System Administrator | PPRM IS |  
15.3. |   | Review of procurement, contract, suppliers, buyers,   sector profiles | PPO Specialists | PPRM IS |  
15.4. |   | Management of risk assessment and risk management   model | PPO Specialists | PPRM IS |  

